# EC2 in AWS

Allows user to to run virtual servers in the cloud.

## EBS (Elastic Block Store)
***Definition: Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) provides block-level storage volumes for use with Amazon EC2 instances.***

Like a hard drive in the cloud.

## SO (Operating System) for EC2
- Amazon Linux
- Windows 
- MacOS

## Chose CPU, RAM and Storage
When you launch an EC2 instance, you can choose the instance type that best fits your needs based on the required CPU, RAM, and storage capacity.

## Chose network Interface Card
Chose velocity and assign a public or private IP.

## User Data
You can provide user data to an EC2 instance at launch time to perform common automated configuration tasks and even run scripts after the instance starts.

## EC2 instance names
First letter is the family, the number is the generation, and the last letters are the type of instance.
- General Purpose: t3, m5, a1
- Compute Optimized: c5
- Memory Optimized: r5, x1e
- Storage Optimized: i3, d2
- Accelerated Computing: p3, g4

The number indicates the generation of the instance type. For example, m5 is the fifth generation of the M family of instances.

Then there is the size of the instance:
- Large: l
- Extra Large: x
- Double Extra Large: dx
- Quadruple Extra Large: qx

## Elastic load Balancer (ELB)
***Definition: An Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) automatically distributes incoming application traffic across multiple

## Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling 
***Definition: Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling helps you maintain application availability and allows you to automatically add or remove EC2 instances according to conditions you define.***

## Cloudwatch
***Definition: Amazon CloudWatch is a monitoring and observability service built for DevOps engineers, developers, site reliability engineers (SREs), and IT managers.***






